Your first assignment is to use GitHub to submit some autobiographical information about yourself.  Answer the following questions.  Use GitHub to submit the resulting text file.

1. What is your name?
Emanuel (Manny) Cuevas

2. Why are you interested in Data Science?
Data Science has the right mix of disciplines to both keep my mind stimulated and keep me competitive in the evolving job market. Coming from a business background in my undergraduate career and professional career, I understand the value of using data to make informed business decisions. Data Science offers a wide range of skills and techniques that are well suited for solving a multitude of business challenges. The ability to exercise these diverse skillsets across multiple disciplines is what appeals to me the most about the Data Science profession. As a new and growing field, organizations that employ Data Scientists are going to need strategic leaders that have a technical focus in order to be successful. Having had the experience of implementing an analytics team within an organization for the very first time, I understand the value of having business leaders with a technical focus. For this reason, I believe the Data Science program will lay a strong foundation for my long term aspiration of leading a Data and Analytics organization.

3. Tell us a little bit about your programming experience.  What programming courses have you taken?  Do you use programming on the job, and if so, how?
My programming experience is somewhat limited. I took a course in Visual Basic .Net as an undergraduate, and am self-taught in R and SQL with no formal courses in either. I do use VB and SQL quite extensively in my current job as a systems specialist. Using SQL I integrate data from a variety data management systems such as Oracle, MS SQL Server, and Teradata. Using R I have developed forecasting models for time series data in order to estimate future values. Using VB I have developed basic applications within MS Access, and macro's in MS Excel.

4.  Tell us a little bit about your statistics experience.  What statistics courses have you taken?  Do you use statistics on the job, and if so, how?
My statistics experience is somewhat limited. I took a course in Statistical Process Control as an undergraduate. In this course I learned foundational knowledge in statistics, and applied this knowledge to common challenges found in the manufacturing industry such as Lean, Six Sigma, and Quality Control. I have been able to apply statistical techniques on the job, particularly in the discovery of patterns between defect variables in the manufacturing environment.  

5.  Do you have other experience with R or Python?
No

6.  What do you hope to learn in this class?
Foundational knowledge of R and Python to prepare me for the future courses in the MSDS program.

7.  Is there anything else you would like to share with us?
I would by no means describe myself as an expert in either programming or statistics, but am highly interested in both. Coming from a business background, I understand there will be a great learning curve, but I am motivated to take on the challenge and succeed in this program.